pages/tutorials/c/getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Getting Started
permalink: /tutorials/c/getting-started/
---

The tutorials in this guide assume that you have a basic knowledge of C. If that is not the case, you'll be able to find C tutorials easily on Google.

# Prerequisites

The CE C toolchain requires ANSI C (C89), which means that some common C99-syntax won't work. You can find out more about the things in C99 that don't work in C89 [**here**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99#Design).

For instance, functions which take no arguments must be declared as
`returntype name(void);`

In addition, because the ZDS C Compiler (and the TIOS) does not save IY when working with functions and loops; you must use the `_OS( )` macro when calling native CE OS functions. For example:

```c
    /* Wait for the OS to recieve a keypress */
    _OS( os_GetKey() );
```

TIOS functions are prefixed with either `os_` or `boot_` in order to ensure the OS macro is used properly.

Finally, in order to save space, the prototype for main is: `void main(void);`

# The Libararies

There a few standard C libraries in order to make your life easier when programming. You can find them [**here**](https://github.com/CE-Programming/libraries).

In order to use these libraries, click on the button that says `Download ZIP`. Then, simply navigate to the `/library_headers` directory, and copy all the files inside into your C development library include directory, which is located at `CEdev/lib/ce`.

# Introduction

# The Code

# Finishing Up

Commit message:

Fixed up some intro things

pages/tutorials/c/getting-started.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Getting Started
permalink: /tutorials/c/getting-started/
---

The tutorials in this guide assume that you have a basic knowledge of C. If that is not the case, you'll be able to find C tutorials easily on Google.

# Prerequisites

The CE C toolchain requires ANSI C (C89), which means that some common C99-syntax won't work. You can find out more about the things in C99 that don't work in C89 [**here**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99#Design).

For instance, functions which take no arguments must be declared as
`return_type name(void);`

TIOS functions are prefixed with either `os_` or `boot_` for your convience, and these functions can be included by using the [`tice.h`](https://github.com/CE-Programming/toolchain/blob/master/CEdev/include/ce/c/tice.h) header that comes with the toolcahin.

Finally, in order to save space, the prototype for main is: `void main(void);`

# The Libararies

There a few standard C libraries in order to make your life easier when programming. You can find them [**here**](https://github.com/CE-Programming/libraries/releases/latest).

Follow the directions in the above link in order to install the libraries into your toolchain.

These will be dynamically linked into your program at runtime, and only the functions you use will be referenced, thus minimizing size.

# Finishing Up

And that's all there is to it! Now it's just off to find some good C tutorials, or browse around some example code, references, and tutorials available here.
