---
layout: page
title: Your First ASM Program
permalink: /tutorials/asm/1.html
---

Great; you are now going to create your first assembly program! We are going to start by printing your name to the screen.

Assuming you are in your *CEasm* directory from the [setup page]({site.basurl}/setup), you will want to create a new subdirectory called *tutorial_1*. Now, you want to create a file called *main.asm* within the *tutorial_1* directory.

All of this can be accomplished with the command: ```md tutorial_1 & cd tutorial_1 & echo.>main.asm```

The directory sturcture is organized, in order to prevent loss of data when moving through these tutorials. Now, let us begin with some code:

```asm
#include "../include/ti8pce.inc"

 .db tExtTok,tAsm84CECmp
 .org UserMem
 
 call _HomeUp
 ld hl,name
 call _PutS
 ret
 
name:
 .db "Your Name",0
```

You can replace *Your Name* with your name, if you so desire. Now, before we try to understand what we just wrote, let's see if we can actually assemble this program.

Assuming your current directory is *tutorial_1* in the command shell, you should be able to type

```
..\tools\spasm -E main.asm TUT1.8xp
```

And then recieve a new file in the *tutorial_1* directory called *TUT1.8xp*. This is a program file, which you can now send using TI-Connect CE to your calculator.

If you get any errors, follow through the above directions again.

Now, once you have transferred *TUT1.8xp* to your calculator, you can run it by pressing <span class='calcButton'>2nd</span><span class='calcButton'>0</span> in order to open the catalog, select the `Asm(` command, and then select TUT1 from the <span class='calcButton'>prgm</span> menu. Your homescreen should look like this:

```
Asm(TUT1
```

Press <span class='calcButton'>enter</span>. Your name should be displayed on the screen! Congradualtions, you have just made your first assembly program. Now let's go through the components so you can understand what each section does.
